.TH FUSIONCTL 1 "May 2026" "fusionctl 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fusionctl \- manage Oracle Fusion timecards from a local CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
fusionctl [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]
fusionctl auth login|status|logout
fusionctl timesheet log-week|log-month|log-last-month [OPTIONS]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fusionctl
is a local command line tool for Oracle Fusion timecards. It stores session state locally, uses browser-backed Oracle/Azure authentication, and provides convenience commands for planning regular work entries.
.PP
The standalone executable includes Python and project dependencies. Users do not need to install Python.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR --version ", " -v
Print the fusionctl version and exit.
.TP
.BR -vv ", " --verbose
Enable diagnostic logging.
.TP
.BR -vvv ", " --very-verbose
Enable maximum diagnostic logging.
.TP
.BI --config " PATH"
Use an alternate configuration path.
.TP
.B --no-cache
Ignore cached data and fetch fresh data where supported.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show help.
.SH AUTH COMMANDS
.TP
.B fusionctl auth login --browser
Open a browser, complete Oracle/Azure sign-in, and store a local session.
.TP
.B fusionctl auth login --browser --headless
Reuse the persistent browser profile without showing the browser. This avoids repeated 2FA only while Oracle/Azure keep the SSO session valid.
.TP
.B fusionctl auth login --token
Prompt for a manually copied Oracle Cookie header and store it locally.
.TP
.B fusionctl auth status
Show whether a local session is present and still valid.
.TP
.B fusionctl auth logout
Remove the stored local session.
.SH TIMESHEET COMMANDS
.TP
.B fusionctl timesheet log-week --project CODE --task CODE [--hours HOURS] [--location VALUE] [--work-pattern PATTERN] [--work-from-home-days N] [--holiday-calendar NAME] [--refresh-holidays] [--holiday-cache-days N] [--notes TEXT] [--dry-run]
Plan one regular work entry for each weekday in the current week, Monday through today.
.TP
.B fusionctl timesheet log-month --project CODE --task CODE [--hours HOURS] [--location VALUE] [--work-pattern PATTERN] [--work-from-home-days N] [--holiday-calendar NAME] [--refresh-holidays] [--holiday-cache-days N] [--notes TEXT] [--dry-run]
Plan one regular work entry for each weekday in the weekly timecards that overlap the current calendar month.
.TP
.B fusionctl timesheet log-last-month --project CODE --task CODE [--hours HOURS] [--location VALUE] [--work-pattern PATTERN] [--work-from-home-days N] [--holiday-calendar NAME] [--refresh-holidays] [--holiday-cache-days N] [--notes TEXT] [--dry-run]
Plan one regular work entry for each weekday in the previous calendar month.
.TP
.B fusionctl timesheet refresh-holidays --holiday-calendar NAME [--year YYYY]
Refresh the working-directory holiday calendar cache.
.PP
The period logging commands skip weekends. They currently dry-run by default. The
.B --execute
switch is reserved for the Oracle batch-write path and fails clearly until that path is wired into the CLI command.
.PP
Location defaults to
.B Work from office (employment contract).
Use
.B --location
to apply one Oracle location to every entry. Use
.B --work-pattern hybrid --work-from-home-days 2
to assign the first two working days in each week to
.B Work from home
and the remaining working days to office.
.PP
.B log-month
uses full Monday-Sunday timecard weeks. The first planned week can include trailing days from the previous month, and the last planned week can include spillover days from the next month.
.PP
Use
.B --holiday-calendar moldova
to apply Republic of Moldova public holidays from the local holiday cache. If a public holiday falls on a weekend and Oracle does not prefill it, fusionctl splits the previous working day into
.B 7h Regular
plus
.B 1h Public Holiday.
Holiday cache files live under
.I ./.fusionctl/holiday-calendars
relative to the directory where the command is run. Use
.B --refresh-holidays
or
.B fusionctl timesheet refresh-holidays
to refresh them.
.SH COMMON EXAMPLES
.TP
Authenticate with visible browser:
.EX
fusionctl auth login --browser
.EE
.TP
Check authentication:
.EX
fusionctl auth status
.EE
.TP
Preview this week:
.EX
fusionctl timesheet log-week --project WORDV266 --task 02 --dry-run
.EE
.TP
Preview the current month:
.EX
fusionctl timesheet log-month --project WORDV266 --task 02 --dry-run
.EE
.TP
Preview last month:
.EX
fusionctl timesheet log-last-month --project WORDV266 --task 02 --dry-run
.EE
.TP
Use different daily hours:
.EX
fusionctl timesheet log-week --hours 7.5 --project WORDV266 --task 02 --dry-run
.EE
.TP
Preview a hybrid work pattern:
.EX
fusionctl timesheet log-week --project WORDV266 --task 02 --work-pattern hybrid --work-from-home-days 2 --dry-run
.EE
.TP
Preview with Moldova weekend-holiday carryover:
.EX
fusionctl timesheet log-week --project WORDV266 --task 02 --holiday-calendar moldova --dry-run
.EE
.TP
Refresh Moldova holidays for 2026:
.EX
fusionctl timesheet refresh-holidays --holiday-calendar moldova --year 2026
.EE
.TP
Show maximum diagnostic logging:
.EX
fusionctl -vvv auth status
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.fusion-cli/browser-profile
Persistent browser profile used for Oracle/Azure SSO reuse.
.TP
.I ~/.fusion-cli/session.json
Fallback local session file when OS keyring storage is unavailable.
.TP
.I ~/.fusion-cli/cache
Local cache directory for read workflows.
.TP
.I ./.fusionctl/holiday-calendars
Working-directory cache for public holiday calendars.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FUSION_ORACLE_BASE_URL
Override the Oracle base URL. Defaults to https://eclf.fa.em2.oraclecloud.com.
.TP
.B FUSION_ORACLE_TIMEOUT
HTTP timeout in seconds.
.TP
.B FUSION_APP_DIR
Override the local application state directory.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Command succeeded.
.TP
.B 1
Authentication, storage, or command failure.
.TP
.B 2
Session expired or validation failure, depending on the command.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR docs/usage.md ,
.BR docs/distribution.md
